foreign
so [__]
does this not make it I mean
I feel like this shouldn't change
anything at all
this will fail
I just don't test it
fine I don't know who wrote that but
it's wrong
maybe we should be good now
Paragon of Truth okay interesting
damn it
um
I mean that's what you want to see
it's not because
thank you
foreign
oh wait
I think the signs no no the signs are
wrong
all these terms are negative
foreign
another double check that
the order might be different but does
that matter
that could matter
I could be [__] up
no but I kind of don't think so
hmm
foreign
[Music]
that's 15 what is it
hmm
yeah all right hold on
but interestingly equation I do look
really
wait hold on
I have only extra ones
32. oh yeah 1610 okay
I'm pretty sure that's fine
foreign
come around here
all right
foreign
oh really I can do that
oh that's so sick I don't know I could
do that
that's a very handy feature
foreign
let's see all right
look I knew the [__] Lambda bro
and it just doesn't appear here
it's great it's fantastic
let's hope that uh
maybe this t7 get you
37 gets used here
all right so I'm actually the idiot
straight
let's try that [__] again
[__]
okay we're
um
foreign
I'm trying to addict
oh
[__]
yes well okay
okay
[__] yeah okay that's a stupid Lambda
all right so we solved this [__]
foreign
hmm I can't believe that just works it's
amazing
I should be able to do this
labeled
beautiful
okay so what we want to do here
is that a test
let's see this one's gonna dispatch
this simple should be the same
I think
foreign
mm-hmm
um
that's probably because
foreign
that's closer
nice
foreign
I feel like I'm just missing some stupid
little change
foreign
yourself
didn't run
[__]
I really want this stupid [__]
rainbow
good night see ya
are you working on ask him or what's
giving you yeah
is this yeah
no yeah it's
it's fine it's it's going all right
the problem is they they basically give
you an escape hatch where they uh
write whatever they want in it and just
sort of leave everyone to parse it
do we uh have new CI
nice
all right
yeah so yeah
it's time to come alive my friends
all right so what's left I mean the
[__] custom laws are busted that just
[__] off with that [__]
then the next step is
run the optimization Loop
um
let me look at this thing and see where
we're at here
we really do need to shut the alignment
map but I guess the alignment map is fun
to show with the model when an ensemble
of one
foreign
so this is
all right so the
I wonder if anyone in this whole project
is actually simulated this model
and had it
you know what I'm actually I want to try
this so badly
because this comes from biomodels
all right let's just try 960.
all right so
let's see I think I have a
uh uh I think I have a
sbml
I probably have to update
classic
um fine it's worth it
the problem is it's like such wasted
work
actually
um
I could do this
by a models analysis
uh it's gonna be out of date two
freaking whatever it doesn't matter
that's out of date let's just
[__] try it
guppy bath
gosh darn it dude cash invalidations are
killing me
all right
all right let's see
wait
yeah no we're good here
uh let's just call it
do do
actually I should be able to do
biomodo's loader
uh it's uh
it's [__] modeling formats
I can't believe this
in multiple shooting
I do want to try this really badly
so let's copy this because this is
this is fine
uh
see what else do I need here
um data size let's make it 40. that's
right 100.
it's
uh we can delete this
um and then this is going to be
uh this can be dim
we can remove this
uh
that's where the guesswork comes in
save that t-span
t-steps
the algrow can we do we have to provide
an L probably not
I don't want to provide an L because
it's a stiff problem almost positively
for that
dude holy [__]
pre-composition is just such a brittle
ass
thing man
okay well we have the observables parsed
parsing so maybe I could just get rid of
the the attempts at
okay
oop what did I do
okay fine
group says
but this is a busted dude
group size equals three
let's get that plot going
oh wait do plot equals true
okay let's look at this thing
foreign
here
it's gonna be so cool in gbt you can
just like take an image and be like yeah
generate this plot from this code or
something like that but alas
dude
and that you just have a dead Trulia
process it's so it's so nice don't you
just love having dead Julia processes
Cloud up all your
stuff
right now specifically didn't put
ordinary diffique in here it's just like
brovsky what is going on here okay but
this one's probably good so I could be
using ordinary defeat sbml toolkit
one two three four five six seven eight
nine 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 22 22
23 24
25. it's just like come on dude like oh
man we're so fast we're so fast bro
okay cool
yes
217 parameters
yo what the [__]
uh it's like a stratified model
oh
[__]
I can't believe I just closed my
freaking
all right come on we're almost there
200 parameters like what
I guess they're like parameters that you
can use to hot swap or something
ridiculous
Yeah country and then you like have a
yeah geez you have a switch built into
the thing
it's not the worst but it's just like
um
[Music]
I don't want to use that
foreign
eight nine eight three
let's check
there was beautiful
so happy from that one
all right so let's put that back in
apparently that's part of some ontology
so just find all of this in the world
and just write Lambda
so that's much better
that at least will get us somewhat there
how are we doing on this it's time to
first so long
27 equations really
oh son of a [__]
okay well
then
uh
foreign
ID
was it return returns a model that's
really fast I like that
apparently
apparently none of the models just
[__] work at all
um
what about 955
[__]
um
wow that is just freaking remarkable
why
are all of these bad
well I guess that goes to show people
doing epidemiology or just [__] [__]
modeling
all right let's take a piss
Ed
foreign
something that
at least Ben went and gotten it got it
in a simulatable form so that's good I
guess
what is this this failed
that's good
see the outer place thing here seems uh
sussy
that's my teaspoon
okay so why don't we just admit defeat
on
uh
transition rates I guess
and just go back to
any transition rates
is just equal to
is equal to
let's just copy these for
lines go back to this
um
excuse me
oh this is okay
no but we can't do that though without
[__] up the tests
okay I see
um
okay
fine
we don't need this
because this is literally the exact same
except here we do the special case of
observables
some down for I'm down for all this
that's interesting
why don't we
uh
I'm just bored
on this guy
uh
why isn't it
okay
it's like one freaking pass takes
forever huh
it's a little frustrating
what are we doing here
I don't think this is ever going to turn
my name
the number of parameters probably just
like way too high
what
let me make the data size 40.
it's really like so little data
just play it doesn't even get to the
I feel like there's just something sassy
going on
let's see
okay
let me get rid of this because I debug
this stupid issue and I know what that
means now
come down here
yeah the reality about this project is
that modeling is just hard it's just
like a hard thing to do
and
canonicalization of models and just like
conditioning and data it's all just like
a really
involved process and it's hard to
abstract the nuances of
like
well done modeling from
anything
is that really this servers wow that's
crazy
foreign
[Music]
this is nothing
I forget where I put this stuff
[Music]
I mean
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
[Music]
foreign
[Laughter]
[Music]
foreign
man
[Music]
and what model was this that's right
okay that's okay
I just forgot to do this thing
for some of the
it's just fine for me I don't give a
[__] because I'm a Gangster
I just need to make sure that lambdas
were back but that's okay
all right so now we're here
kicking it you know
let's go back to that Loop
[Music]
should be fast now
foreign
[Music]
[Laughter]
what the [__]
ers
[Music]
foreign
I'm allowed to be here
so um
okay
okay okay okay so what are we doing here
let's just keep it running
[Music]
thank you
it's actually stupid to handle rate laws
it's just a more General class of models
and it's not right to
like reaction
like reaction that is still defined by
mass action kinetics through and through
like there's no enzyme
like there's no notion of
anything but
multiplicative terms I think
and or I guess exponential difference
too
oh yeah
what's up
okay I don't think I need
foreign
much of this anymore
[Music]
[__] I'm such a messy worker
all right let's just uh
[Music]
yeah
fine
all right cool
so now we can just jump to the unpacked
[__]
um
that's just not right
that's because I overwrote it
[Music]
all right we good
I just copy this again
[Music]
actual demo [__]
tough
all right
we don't actually need the lrns part
we can keep the Sims because it's just
useful to have around
okay unpack it we don't actually need
this either
cool
[Music]
oh I can unpack
my observed I think
[Music]
hospitalizations cases nice
all right all right all right so what do
we need we don't I don't think we need
any of this [__] really we definitely
don't need that because I I implemented
that that's the only thing I did today
really
[Music]
we don't need that either
we don't need this
well whatever
defaults we don't need this either we
don't need any of this it's just this
all over to something where I don't know
what the [__] we're talking about
[Music]
foreign
okay okay okay okay okay
uh
[Music]
um
nice
right but that's not what you need
[Music]
laughs
where did I do that stuff where I
actually
that's not it though
[Music]
all right so genuinely
so we want to calibrate the model to
this data
[Music]
what if I just made it
broader
foreign
[Music]
[Laughter]
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
I wish you told me how far back it was
remembering
um
I allowed to I guess I am okay so [__]
it uh
what's the loss the loss the L2
what is that
t-span
[Music]
I don't really get why that part is
there but that's okay
um
[Music]
p keys P vowels
um
but I'm allowed to pass whatever I want
to this
Okay so
NP is equal to length
P valves
110 P
um
is that is that right
and I'm gonna pass it literally
[Music]
what is the OG Sig
ma okay fine why am I getting tripped up
on that
um
foreign
[Music]
s for
yeah all right hold on let me just move
this so that
[Music]
okay
all right
[Music]
oh this must remember
he is this
Sim parameter names
um
but the P valves are actually going to
be
length
[Music]
p plus
okay okay okay so
um
[Music]
yeah
is that right dude that seems sussed up
[Music]
I think I could actually do
I think I could actually do this
[Music]
um
foreign
[Music]
I feel like it's not chill if I were to
do this
where
where I update the defaults
[Music]
okay let's just say p keys was the
yeah new dece is equal to
p keys
[Music]
um
foreign but then
[Music]
so I think that that's actually chill
so it's what are P valves p-visor okay
so wait so we're just gonna say p is
equal to
uh
I just called I think I call it defaults
[Music]
cheers
foreign
let's just try this
[Music]
um
so then why did it terminate what's
going wrong
[Music]
did it just err and it like didn't even
God optimization is just a shitty
process dude
I really hate doing optimization
[Music]
is there a Max itter's ARG like how do I
is that right dude
[Music]
under the hood I guess we have
oh sheesh
[Music]
so this should ever terminate or like
is there any way to stop it
[Music]
foreign
thank you
[Music]
it just sucks let's see
whatever
[Music]
foreign
dude I mean that's just insane
[Music]
foreign
how quick that was
[Music]
and this just doesn't stop
and the hilarious things if you do this
foreign
doesn't actually go away I'm pretty sure
maybe it did
[Music]
I don't know it says evaluating
okay
I don't know
[Music]
we can do it here
laughs
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
that's just amazing
thank you
[Music]
um
foreign
[Music]
yeah let's just not even do the plotting
part I mean
uh I don't know what to say uh
python is just much faster than Trulia
like through and through like there's
just no competition
[Music]
Jesus Okay so
foreign
[Music]
no
no we need difference recording
it's a it's a fair
because
ode and
ode and I didn't Supply an owl too so
there you go
[Music]
now people care about I mean
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
does it have optimization
foreign
[Music]
I hate that that's the one gripe I have
I feel like that I consistently like oh
what the hell why are they different
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
it's a patch version shouldn't do [__]
foreign
[Music]
thank you
mm-hmm
[Music]
thank you
get distracted with like the thrill I do
not care
[Music]
foreign
oh okay
[Music]
oh nice
all right
thank you
foreign
[Music]
how does it handle this blast stuff
though I mean linear algebra is
what the [__]
I see I see
bill
foreign
[Music]
test functions but that is very useful
to know about
[Music]
is a ray really a thing
I guess so
[Music]
all right cool
thank you
[Music]
ode solver is great
that was kind of cringe already
I guess dimension
they probably uses in theory
and algebra num traits Simba
but not endearing
[Music]
okay
what is unused for
ends a parameter
Doper five
[Music]
all right cool
let's just copy this
[Music]
uh
30 e-solvers
[Music]
foreign
okay
[Music]
foreign
named
type parameters
self item
s
[Music]
foreign
thank you
[Music]
[Laughter]
thank you
[Music]
foreign
just doesn't understand really
[Music]
foreign
no solver in the root
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
Builder
I don't think I need that
please
executor
[Music]
I thought I had this
no Prelude I should get rid of that
thing
[Music]
is that a thing
okay I'm not using difficult I'm using
ode underscore solvers
there's the crates that I uh
dobre five
I think
yeah okay fine
[__] I hate this stupid back thing
[Music]
where's an example
thank you
[Music]
there really isn't a good
foreign
that's so nice man
and you could probably stepper has to
implement what where's the docs
home page
traits where's the
[Music]
system definition
takes x y
what is that
why is it
a pointer to
foreign
it's the type of the state I say
okay
so what is X though
oh X is T bro chill with that okay
that's fine
[Music]
what is the inner
it's time to read the source code
let's look an example
calculus Lorenz we always go for Lorenz
okay so just take it's just stores the
parameters
impulse system for Lorenzo tractor
what's this state what is that
[Music]
thank you
okay so now I want to know the source
though
uh
I guess implemented per ALG which makes
sense let's just look at rk4 here
integrate
of fun integrate
numb steps
step size
[Music]
oh okay
foreign
[Music]
like
the numerical the numerical stuff in
Rust is kind of janky at the moment it's
not really that integrated at all
together but it is a lot of potential
man there's a lot of potential
thank you
[Music]
foreign
let's see let's look at the traits in
the other guy
oh what is that
it's like a static array thing because
you could stack allocate the Tuple
I guess whatever
[Music]
um
thank you
all right so wait let's just take an ALG
[Music]
okay symbol
it's an enum Okay order butcher tableau
[Music]
Builder initial hint
foreign
[Music]
um
foreign
[Music]
I feel like this is pretty mid
wow
[Music]
foreign
constant
isn't this just a construct
can you have multiple
Ops ad for dual dual type output equals
for dual
foreign
[Music]
I don't care anymore
foreign
[Music]
pretty easy
do you think flush just had a the
biggest breaking change really
neural sde with noon
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
maybe it is OBS I don't know it's like
whenever I'm [__] trying to do
anything it's just so goddamn slow
but awful
optimization results too
time to swallow my pride and just
[__]
[Music]
okay so we have this we have this split
okay now the model
map is
model model and model data set alignment
Maps
uh
let's see what do we have in the
[Music]
way of that
no no okay here
sarhd s-a-r-h
[Music]
it's nothing
[__]
[Music]
all right
I think I want
I think that's what I want though or
keys or
foreign
[Music]
I say okay hold on
that's not fair but it is like five
minutes it's crazy
let's get this thing out of here
[Music]
thank you
okay what else
we can calculate the loss we don't want
this loss we want my loss
foreign
[Music]
idea why it failed
but if I get rid of this thing it like
continues
but I have no idea because I don't want
to do that because then I have to
restart Trulia right
did it print anything
fail to converge
[Music]
foreign
guys
but now if I do this doesn't it [__]
go
[Music]
I don't actually give a [__]
so then what is wrong with my callback
I honestly have no [__] idea
foreign
[Music]
was guys what the [__] was the
difference someone tell me
also tell me why is it
that this [__] early stopping thing
just doesn't even happen
[Music]
okay I
I have no idea
[Music]
but it does seem like the loss went
pretty good
but I don't think it really
okay okay so now
uh we wanna we wanna put it so it fit PS
oh sh oh wait no no we're good
cool
[Music]
what
things
plot covet Hub thanks guys
[Music]
[__] man
uh
it's like six numbers it's just so
stupid bro what the [__] does anyone
really get buy this [__]
[Music]
uh [__] it
we want to do this so we do this
[Music]
really
it found some hack
[Music]
all right let's go back to
uh it's gonna be
u0 from PF
EF okay then
we have
that thing
[Music]
cool
the infected
is equal to one that's not right though
all right
healed is healed part of it
uh
[Music]
foreign
you actually do want good predictions so
maybe
you actually do want
um just a good [__] okay
so instead we're gonna get a
we're just gonna optimize the parameters
and I'm gonna just see how it goes
do I have
oh well
all right
foreign
I actually want to retry
I want to retry this
uh
[Music]
right or uh
okay we tried that but we need to fix
the defaults
[Music]
right
um
foreign
[Music]
so wait so let's just do this
so we have default let's do this
[Music]
is it any different I feel like it's
different
[Music]
orange is infected though
okay
what if we did this
no wait hold on
huh
if I modify that it's for real that's
different
[Music]
I guess it is I guess that changes
I guess that mutates it so if
wow I didn't know that this actually
mutates return
of
[Music]
interesting
okay well fine
so then I should only have to do this
cool
[Music]
so let's go back to this
thank you
oh [__]
[Music]
[__]
the loss is even worse
[Music]
the loss is actually going down this is
pretty sick
foreign
[Music]
I don't need to pull out the parameters
anymore
[Music]
foreign
does it go before it's just like
[Music]
thank God
oh let's go bro
that's [__] rad okay we did it guys
thank God
I fit everything and I don't give a [__]
[Music]
all right we're fitting everything
so now
all fits is equal to this
for
DF in or for uh
um
foreign
so let's do
wait before I do this
am I allowed
Choice oh wait this is you hold on
[Music]
we started off with hold on
we started off with a lot of people
diagnosed
[Music]
and a lot of people dead
I wonder how accurate that is because I
honestly have no idea but nobody's
susceptible that's like [__]
[Music]
can we try a longer time
you said that you
foreign
[Music]
let's do 10.
foreign
[Music]
the loss is determined by
the L2
with this
respect to the data with respect to the
cases data so that's actually what we
want to plot right oh that's what we did
plot okay
[Music]
foreign
uh what did I change here let's get the
fix the Lambda thing
this thing and this thing
[Music]
thank you
I finally got a good ish fit
loss
a lot
also fitting you zero though I guess
that's fine okay
[Music]
I'll push this
at some point I really get a
put it in the notebook but
okay so it finished after how many like
fifteen thousand
I want to know that
foreign
[Music]
I mean okay the parameter values though
the parameter value is realistic what at
all I have no idea
who the [__] cares
[Music]
to do 20.
thank you
[Music]
presumably this loss won't get to 188
.
[Music]
thank you
I don't know what is this second
argument here
thank you
it's the guess
why
[Music]
foreign
I mean I I don't actually know how to
interpret these results what's like in
any way but
foreign
[Music]
I mean yeah there's just like no way to
damn it's almost Sunrise that's crazy
let's get rid of this [__]
how long did it take
[Music]
foreign
all right well I feel like that's a
pretty good stopping point then
uh but I do need a I need to finish this
part but I'm done